# Co-Exposure

Incomplete combustion of organic compounds has become a major contributor to global mortality. While investigation of single inhaled toxicants may be useful, the additive effects of multiple toxicants interacting within the body can only be modelled through co-exposure. We evaluate how inhalation of carbon black (CB) and ground-level ozone (O3) alters the lung transcriptome through single or multiple-dose exposures, and if co-exposure can incite unique genome-wide changes. C57BL/6 mice (8-12 weeks old) were exposed to CB (10 mg/m3) and/or O3 (2 ppm) for a duration of (3 hours) over a single exposure (Day 1) or four independent exposures (Day 4). RNA was isolated from lungs and mRNA sequencing performed using the Illumina HiSeq. Lungs were examined with H&E and immunohistochemistry. Electron transport chain (ETC) activities and electron flow were assessed. O3 and co-exposure groups revealed an increased total number of cells (1.70x106 and 2.59x106, respectively) and polymorphonuclear leukocytes (1.11x105 and 3.84x105, respectively) within the lungs. At Day 1 and 4, co-exposure revealed the most differentially expressed number of genes (2234 and 4044, respectively); of these genes, 1188 (Day 1) and 2061 (Day 4) were uniquely differentially expressed, with mitochondrial ETC mRNA transcripts (33 out of 92) significantly impacted at Day 4. Both O3 and co-exposure treatment significantly reduced ETC maximal activity for complexes I (-39.3% and -36.2%, respectively) and IV (-55.1% and -57.1%, respectively). Only co-exposure reduced complex V activity (-35.7%). CB and O3 co-exposure can cause unique transcriptomic changes in the lungs, decreasing electron flow and impairing mitochondrial bioenergetics.
